Welcome everyone to this lecture on an introduction to the perception.
Before we launch straight into neural networks we to understand the individual components first such
as a single neuron artificial neural networks or a and ends actually have a basis in biology.
So we're going to see how we can attempt to mimic biological neurons.
If an artificial neuron otherwise known as a perception and then once we go through the process of how
a simple perceptual works we'll go ahead and show you how you can represent that mathematically but
let's start off of a biological neuron such as a brain cell.
So a biological neuron works as in a simplified way through the following manner.
Basically you have dendrites that feed into the body of this cell.
You can have many dendrites and what happens is an electrical signal gets passed through his dendrites
to the body of the cell and then later on a single output or a single electrical signal is passed on
through an axon to later on Connect to some other neuron.
And that's the basic idea we have kind of these many input of electoral signals through the dendrites
goes into the body and then a single electrical signal output through the axon so the artificial neuron
also has inputs and outputs.
So we're going attempt to mimic the biological neuron so this simple model again is just known as a
perception.
In this case we have two inputs so let's go ahead and see a simple example of how it can work.
So we have two inputs and a single output and we start indexing at zero.
So we have input of zero input 1 so the inputs can have values of features.
So when you have your data set you're going to have various features and these features can be anything
from how many rooms a house has or how dark an image is represented by some sort of pixel amount or
some sort of darkness number etc. So essentially don't worry right now about what these numbers actually
represent.
Later on we're dealing with real data sets.
We'll have something more tangible for right now.
These are just arbitrary number choices but again we have input zero and input 1.
So again indexing starts at zero here and we're going to assign them values of let's say twelve and
four then the next step is to have these inputs multiplied by some sort of weight.
So we have weight 0 4 input 0 and weight 1 for input 1 and typically the weights are actually initialized
through some sort of random generation.
So you just choose a random number for these weights in this case we'll just go ahead and pretend that
the random numbers chosen was zero point five and negative 1.
Again the numbers here are pretty much arbitrary really focus on the general process.
So now these inputs are gonna be multiplied by the weights so that ends up looking like this.
We have 12 times zero point five or one half and that equals six.
And then we say four times negative one is equal to negative four the next step is to take these results
of the inputs multiplied by their respective weights and pass them into an activation function there's
many activation functions to choose from.
Now we're gonna cover this in a lot more detail later on.
For now our activation function is actually going to be very simple we're merely going to say the following.
If the sum of the inputs is positive return 1 or output 1 if the sum of the inputs is negative then
output 0 so in our case.
If we say 6 plus negative 4 that's the same thing as saying 6 minus 4.
So then we get 2 as the result.
So since the sum of the inputs was positive the activation function returns 1 or outputs 1 so there's
a possible issue here and the issue is the following.
What if the original inputs started off as 0 then any way you chose.
Even if it was randomly chosen multiplied by the input would still result in zero.
So if input zero happened to be zero and if one happened to be zero as well instead of twelve and four
then you could have a problem.
You essentially always get out zero because zero multiplied by any way is still gonna be zero so we
can actually fix this by adding in a bias term.
And in this case we choose one.
So we're gonna go ahead and add in our own bias term here plus 1.
So what does this actually look like.
Mathematically.
Now let's quickly think about how we can represent this perception model mathematically.
And it's actually quite simple.
Basically we just say the following from i equals zero to N.
That is the number of inputs we're gonna say W of I or that specific weight for the input multiplied
by X or Y which is the input itself plus the bias term.
And that's essentially it so once we have many perceptions in a network we'll see how we can easily
extend this to a matrix form so as a quick review in this pretty simple lecture we just cover briefly
the following we discussed in the very basic terms how a biological neuron works then how that can reflect
to a perception model which is the artificial neuron and then the mathematical representation of that
perception model.
Coming up next we're going to continue discussing how we can build off this perception model to build
a neural network.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.